---
layout: post
title:  "Re-Inventing the Wheel"
date:   2015-07-01 10:00:00
---
So this is the first time I've written a personal blog post in a long, long while, like probably 10 years.  I was definitely on the bandwagon at the rise of the web 2.0 era.  I had a blogger.com account and enjoyed blabbing to whomever would read whatever I posted on the net.  Most of it was self indulgence, complaining, and random babble.  Over time social media blew up, my posts were swallowed up by the sea of content that was being generated on the internet, and the shiny wore off for me; eventually it fizzled out and I took it down. I kept the domain and left it extremely miminalistic with a picture of monk and a small quote, that which I don't even remember.

I watched as the internet I knew, loved, and grew up on morph into something different. The open world of BBS, gopher, forums, and discovery on the internet was consumed by people trying to capitalize and use it as a tool to make money instead of a tool to share knowledge. Of course this is more pertinent than ever and typically heard in form of what has been mainstreamed as the term "start-up".

A lot of things have changed since that time, social as well as technological.  My first website was built in HTML, I tried the hosted thing for a bit, later using tools like PHPnuke, then drupal.  I have since learned a ton more languages and frameworks, heck I could even build my own framework now.  But if there is anything I have learned over the years, it's when to build something and when to not re-invent the wheel.  After spending a lot of time, more than half my life now, using computers, programming them, learning toolkits, algorithms, many of the different areas of computing, I've realized that sometimes you have to humble yourself, realize that someone may have designed a better technology, or written more elegant code.  You have to humble yourself, bow out, and take advantage of them instead of trying to build it yourself.

In the case of this website it's funny as things have come somewhat full circle.  It is built upon a toolkit, which is jekyll.  While a mix of HTML and scripting, it's simple and gets the job done.  While I could, there is no need for me to go out and build it myself.

The two things I mention above I've witnessed seem to be paired very frequently.  Start-ups that have grand "new" cool idea, but they didn't take the time to do the research in the market to see what was already out there.  They are too busy saving the world with their idea.  And while I'm not trying to stomp on people's ambitions or dreams, it's just I've seen the cycle repeat so many times that I felt compelled to write a post about it.

Now you may thinking "Haters gonna hate", but full disclosure I'm actually a co-founder of a start-up so I have a lot of first hand experience.  I've met Eric Ries, Steve Blank, as well as Mark Andreessen all personally. I've been to meet-ups, the valley, conferences, and google.  I've been at it for over 7 years and the startup I've co-founded has raised multiple rounds of VC funding.  I'm not trying to puff my chest out by any means but if you've read this post this far I want you to know that there is some stable foundation backing this post.

I've seen the wheel re-invented in even my own start-up.  People want to write their own scripts, code-base, tools, etc. Instead of finding existing tools that may already solve the job.  It starts to become a labor of love for some, and I've found at times it becomes more of a social challenge than a technological one.  Nobody wants to be told their idea is wrong, they are doing it wrong, or it's already been done.  But from my experience people do often try and re-invent the wheel. Or they reach for the tool they know instead of possibly using a better wheel.

Sometimes this works out, more often than not it ends it failure, or it does work out and just takes orders of magnitude greater in time to get to solution.  I had a discussion with a friend recently about this and he brought up a good point about inventors vs. innovators.  Inventors typically come up with a novel idea, something that truely is new and greatly effects the world.  While innovators tend to see existing tools or ideas and re-configure them in a way that hadn't been used or thought of before.  I think that many entrepreneurs aren't sure what they want to be.  I've realized that I am not an inventor, and strive to be an innovator.  While this post is a bit whiny, the succesive posts will not be as such. I will try and focus on writing technologies that I am using, tools I've come across, in hopes that as the worlds information becomes more and more streamlined, wheels will be re-invented less.
